# Development and Validation of the Cognitive Impairment Population Risk Tool (CoIPRT) to Predict the Risks of Adult Cognitive Impairment: an international multicentre study with subgroup bias evaluation
Cognitive impairment and dementia are prevalent chronic diseases. Diagnosis of cognitive dysfunction is performed using methods such as MRI or genetics. While accurate, these methods are expensive and difficult to implement on a large scale, limiting their application in routine clinical practice. Here, our objective is to develop and validate a machine learning model based on five independent, geographically diverse datasets encompassing participants aged 50 and older. This model utilizes a wide range of data, including demographic information, personal and family medical history, neuropsychological assessments, functional assessments, and other data, to identify the causes of cognitive impairment in individuals and to exclude potential model biases through appropriate calibration and evaluation. The internal and external AUROC values for our developed CoIPRT model are 0.927 and 0.842, respectively, while the AUPRC values reach 0.923 and 0.859, respectively. The Cognitive Impairment Population Risk Tool exhibited reproducibility for predicting cognitive impairment, providing a practical, inexpensive, and convenient cognitive health tool in this population. Prospective validation of this model in clinical practice and a process for continuous performance monitoring and model recalibration are needed. 
